# Concussion SVM Project

Concussions are a major public health concern that lacks objective, brain-based diagnostic tools. Current diagnosis is based on the signs and symptoms of a potentially concussed patient. However, these symptoms may not appear until hours or days after an incident, making concussions difficult to identify and treat. The proposed solution to this issue is to develop an optimized, validated Support Vector Machine-based (SVM-based) classifier that distinguishes whether a subject is concussed or not based on electroencephalography (EEG) measurements of the subject’s brain activity.

A fully functional code base of this SVM classifier demonstrates the validity and accuracy of the proposed diagnostic method. The initial SVM model is trained on a dataset of 40 individuals (youth), 20 concussed, and 20 non-concussed. The data is first cleaned and filtered before having features extracted using Power Spectral Analysis, Wavelet Analysis, and Shannon Entropy.  These features are passed into the SVM to produce a trained model. Principal component analysis (PCA), and cross-validation is then applied to the model to improve accuracy and optimization of the SVM. Unlabelled EEG data can then be inserted into the SVM; returning the probability that the subject is concussed. The code base of the classifier is developed with modularity in mind, so others working on the project can add data or more features to retrain the SVM model.

After 1000 trials of training the SVM and testing it using the training data, the average accuracy of using Hold-out as the cross-validation method is 96.85%, the average accuracy of 10-fold is 99.97%, and the average accuracy of leave-out is 100%. This suggests that the SVM classifier has the potential to provide an alternative solution to subjective concussion diagnosis. As mentioned above, the software created is modular and thoroughly documented to allow for future changes to be accomplished with ease.
